---
layout: post
title: "Learning Angular NGRX"
subtitle: 'Component State switch and effects'
author: "Riino"
mathjax: true
status: WIP
sticky: false
tags:
  Web
  html
  Front-end
  Angular
---

# Why NGRX Store?

In some cases, we need to manage the states inside a component, or even a global state to let our page render corresponding contents for users. NGRX uses `store` to save a current state, and component can get this live state via observeable variables.

Traditionally, we can use a variable as a member inside our component script and make this as a state flag, our code will review this variable and change their state during life cycle. But, to use NGRX can bring such advantages in my opinion:

1. You put state and state-changer, state-handler in an isolated place.
2. You will only have a interface to get/set state.
3. Easier to pass your state, and isolate effect from your pure functions.

To make our code more elegant and replaceable, we can use **facade** pattern based on a `app.facade.ts` , which will provide easy interfaces for components' script to control our **store**. 

# @ngrx/Store

A store is a 'holder' for current state, in our pattern we can use DI to get this store by us DI, and implement store in `app.facade.ts`.

```
//TODO CODE HERE for constructor
```



## Component with Store

Imagine that the component script is the code behind our visual page, and the store is just like the code behind the code bind, and the facade works as the only interface. As for component, we have its html file, css file, and the component script, while as for the store, we need create these script file : action , reducer, effect, and selector:

Action: define type of action.

Reducer: Capture action dispatched, and replace store’s state. Also, it will init a default state for state.

Selector: Provided a pipe from store, and provided public query method to let other class get sync state.

Effect: Capture action dispatched, and do other things, like call api to send http request, or dispatch other action.

### Set State

First we need define which state we have:

```
code here
```

To set a state, component script need to call facade’s method, and the latter will dispatch a action:

```
Code here
```

And reducer will capture it and change store’s state :

```
code here
```

### Get State

Define selector:

```
code here
```

Get observable variable from state via selector:

```
code here
```

## Store-Action-Reducer

## Deep in Store : RxJS 

# @ngrx/Effect

https://juejin.im/post/58ed71f5a0bb9f006a4aeb9b
